In this exercise, we're going to
demonstrate one more
use of iterators, this time with the tuple
data structure.
So let's get started.
First thing we're going to do is open our
file.
We'll call it chap9ex1.py.
And what we wanna do is, we wanna create a
tuple that's
a little more complex than just a standard
tuple of single elements.
So what we're gonna do is, we're going to
define a square by its points.
So I'm gonna write out four points, our
x,y coordinates.
So what we have is actually four tuples
inside an enclosing tuple
that represents the square, at least in
terms of the points of the square.
So here's my tuple and as you can see each
point is represented as another tuple.
So we have the point ten eight, the point
ten 23, the point 25 23 and the point 25
eight, that represents my square.
So, if I wanted to display the points of
the
square, I could write a four loop to do
so.
So, let's Save and Execute the program.
Oops, a little mistake here.
Let's fix it.
Right there.
Try it again.
So there are four points.
To capture that same output using an
iterator we'll
go back to our code, comment out the four
loop,
create an iterator object.
We'll call it squareit or sqaureit and we
call the iter function with our tuple.
Then to, print the four points, we're
simply gonna call
the next function, on squareit, and do
that four times.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna type
it out one more time, then I'll Copy and
Paste.
Control C and then control V.
So, that should give us our four points.
And we don't wanna go father than that.
There's nothing else in the tuple anyway,
but, if
we did, then we would get the stop
iteration exception.
I brought that up just to remind you that,
in our chapter on exception handling, I'll
demonstrate how
to use a while loop to go through an
explicit iterator, and not have the stop
iteration exception thrown.
Anyways, so now we're ready to display our
four points.
So we're going to click File Save, clear
the screen and there are four points
again.
This exercise demonstrates that we can use
iterators even with
complex data structures where we have
tuples stored inside of tuples.
And with that we wrap up this chapter on
iterators.